[0.18] Document Apache Kafka Sink (#3031) (#3059)
knative/docs: docs/eventing/sink/kafka-sink.md

---

> title: "Apache Kafka Sink"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Apache Kafka sink"
```

weight: 30
type: "docs"
---

> This page shows how to install and configure Apache Kafka Sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows how to install and configure an Apache Kafka sink.
```

## Prerequisites

> [Knative Eventing installation](./../../install/any-kubernetes-cluster.md#installing-the-eventing-component).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You must have [Knative Eventing](./../../install/any-kubernetes-cluster.md#installing-the-eventing-component) installed.
```

## Installation

1. Install the Kafka controller:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply --filename {{< artifact org="knative-sandbox" repo="eventing-kafka-broker" file="eventing-kafka-controller.yaml" >}}
    ```

> 1. Install the Kafka Sink data plane:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the KafkaSink data plane:
```

I'd use either "KafkaSink data plane" or "Kafka sink data plane", whichever is correct. Sink should only be capitalized as part of a specific object, not as a general term.

    ```bash
    kubectl apply --filename {{< artifact org="knative-sandbox" repo="eventing-kafka-broker" file="eventing-kafka-sink.yaml" >}}
    ```

> 1. Verify that `kafka-controller` and `kafka-sink-receiver` are running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that `kafka-controller` and `kafka-sink-receiver` deployments are running:
```

Not sure if that's what these are, but I'd specify if they're deployments, services, pods, controllers, etc because it's not clear.

    ```bash
    kubectl get deployments.apps -n knative-eventing
    ```

    Example output:

    ```bash
    NAME                           READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    eventing-controller            1/1     1            1           10s
    eventing-webhook               1/1     1            1           9s
    kafka-controller               1/1     1            1           3s
    kafka-sink-receiver            1/1     1            1           5s
    ```

> ## Kafka Sink

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example KafkaSink object
```

> A `KafkaSink` object looks like this:

Reviewer: I would delete this line

```yaml
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: KafkaSink
metadata:
  name: my-kafka-sink
  namespace: default
spec:
  topic: mytopic
  bootstrapServers:
   - my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.kafka:9092
```

## Kafka Producer configurations

A Kafka Producer is the component responsible for sending events to the Apache Kafka cluster.

> Knative exposes all available Kafka Producer configurations that can be modified to suit your workloads.

Reviewer: Same as for sink, I'd keep "producer" lower case as a conceptual term.

Reviewer: Maybe even specify "event producer" unless a `Producer` is a literal object

> You can change these configurations by modifying the `config-kafka-sink-data-plane` config map in
> the `knative-eventing` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change these configurations by modifying the `config-kafka-sink-data-plane` ConfigMap in
the `knative-eventing` namespace.
```

> Documentation for the settings available in this config map is available on the
> [Apache Kafka website](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/),
> in particular, [Producer configurations](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#producerconfigs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Apache Kafka documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#producerconfigs) for more information about the settings available in this ConfigMap.
```

## Enable debug logging for data plane components

> To enable debug logging for data plane components change the logging level to `DEBUG` in the `kafka-config-logging` config map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable debug logging for data plane components, you must change the logging level to `DEBUG` in the `kafka-config-logging` ConfigMap.
```

> 1. Apply the following `kafka-config-logging` config map:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Apply the following `kafka-config-logging` ConfigMap:
```

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: kafka-config-logging
      namespace: knative-eventing
    data:
      config.xml: |
        <configuration>
          <appender name="jsonConsoleAppender" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
            <encoder class="net.logstash.logback.encoder.LogstashEncoder"/>
          </appender>
          <root level="DEBUG">
            <appender-ref ref="jsonConsoleAppender"/>
          </root>
        </configuration>
    ```

> 2. Restart the `kafka-sink-receiver`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Restart the `kafka-sink-receiver` deployment:
```
?
